# Squad Games Handbook

Participation in Squad Games is open to everyone.

This evolving handbook describes how the organization currently
prefers to work, and offers guidance for how to participate
successfully. It covers standard operating procedures, general
understandings, and expectations of behaviors.

Because this handbook has been approved by the DAO as the general
process that the it prefers to operate by, proposals are much more
likely to pass if the proposer follows these guidelines, engages with
members of the DAO, and builds consensus before proposing.

## The Squad Games DAO

This handbook, along with the rest of this repository, is governed by
a DAO smart contract deployed to the Ethereum main-net at address {}.

The two fundamental actions of the DAO are to award reputation and to
maintain a record of the current version of the Squad Games state
(outlined below). Other functions include distributing funds/assets
and updating the DAO. All DAO actions may be proposed by anyone but
must be passed by reputation weighted vote to take effect.

## The State

The Squad Games DAO votes on which PRs into which repository to accept
and ratify as the current version of the state which includes the
organizational processes in this handbook, the Squad Games
software, and anything else in the repository.

Real world agents with merge permissions in the appropriate repository
are required to merge any PRs the DAO approves. The public can
validate when agents have correctly or incorrectly executed the merge
by referring to the link in the most recently passed proposal. If the
agents prove to be unreliable the DAO may easily select new
repositories to link to with new agents responsible for merging PRs.

The domain `squad.games` is owned by Jesse B. Miller
<jesse@jessebmiller.com> who offers to host the current version of the
software there as long as it does not break any applicable laws and is
not causing harm.

## The Development and Governance Process

* General communication and coordination happens in the discord
  channel <link>

* When needed a planning session is organized in the discord and a
  backlog document specifying work the form of tasks, user stories,
  and so on is assembled into a PR and proposed in a batch. Day to day
  tracking of backlog items are done in GitHub projects but the
  official work plan is that in the repository.

* Backlog work can be anything valuable that an individual can
  complete in a reasonable amount of time and can be software
  development, design, writing, auditing, research, or anything else
  that can be represented in the repository.

* Work should be specified to a pragmatic level according to the
  experience of the DAO members. The INVEST framework or SMART goals
  can be used as guides but should be applied pragmatically. Sometimes
  it's worth specifying a lot, but sometimes it's not.

* Whenever a PR containing new backlog items is approved, the agents
  should both merge the PR and add all items to the GitHub project.

* Whenever a PR completes work it should update the backlog document
  to reflect its completion.

* Backlog items are each given a complexity estimate following the
  Fibonacci sequence (1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13) to signal to workers how
  complex the DAO believes the task is.

* To start development work on a backlog item come discuss it in the
  discord and get assigned to it. This keeps things from becoming a
  race for the reward. We all are committed to giving everyone a fair
  share of work but if there is a proposal to merge a PR that was not
  assigned we are less likely to pass the proposal.

* When work is in progress provide updates in the discord every few
  days or agree explicitly ahead of time to some other schedule. If we
  don't receive these updates we may presume that the work has been
  abandoned and assign it to someone else.

* Come to the discord for any help or assistance you need to make
  progress on the task. We are committed to helping anyone learn our
  system and gain the skills needed to make valuable contributions.

* If something comes up or for any reason and you need to stop working
  on an item or want to switch to another one come discuss it in the
  discord. We respect that things happen and that often they are
  personal. We don't need to know why and are committed to
  accommodating the reasonable needs of all contributors and will have
  an explicit discussion if we believe the accommodations are becoming
  unreasonable.

* When development of an item is complete the developer opens a PR,
  proposes that the DAO merge it and that they grant the amount of
  reputation for the given complexity level (outlined elsewhere in the
  handbook)

* If the DAO turns out to be significantly wrong about the estimate
  come discuss it in discord to clarify any confusion about the task
  and to come to an agreement about which complexity level to use for
  the reputation request in the PR proposal.

* In addition to reputation rewards for completing specific work
  general participation in good faith is rewarded reputation. Each
  participant commits to one ongoing level of involvement ("Here and
  There", "Nights and Weekends", "Part Time", or "Full Time"). These
  commitments are recorded in the repository and if at any time anyone
  is not living up to their commitment we will first discuss it with
  the individual and then either open a PR to change the level of
  commitment from that individual or agree with the individual that
  they will meet the commitment moving forward. At the end of the year
  some amount of reputation <how much?> is awarded weighted by accrued
  participation as recorded.